Data Sources: 
Connecting to Data Sources:
Microsoft Excel, JSON, SQL Server, ect...

Before we start to build graphs we will want to make sure that our data is ready for use, 
We will want to check:
- Data Types. 
- Data Prep: 
Column Names, We may want to use basic row-level functions at this stage

Workspace:
multiple Worksheets, 
Data Sources as a Worksheet, multiple Data Sources. 

Types of Variables: 

- Dimensions(the x-axis categories)- Categorical Variable - 
qualitative values in tableau (such as names, dates, or geographical data) are called Dimensions. 
We will use dimensions to categorize, segment, and reveal the details in our data. Dimensions affect the level of detail in the view. 

- Measures(the y-axis values)- Quantitative Variable - numeric, 
quantitative values in tableau (values that you can measure) called Measures, 
Measures can be aggregated (group by). 

Dimensions and Measures can be Discrete or Continuous. 


The Viz: 
The basic structure of every viz is made of, 
dimension and measure columns placed on the Rows and Columns shelves, 
and on different properties in the Marks card.


Creating Graphs: 
present the amount of workers per manager, 
how would we solve this in SQL?

SELECT count(worker_id) as workers
	,manager
FROM hr
GROUP BY manager

Aggregations in Tableau: 
First, we will add the manager(the x-axis categories) to our worksheet – this is our group by. 
Next we will add our workers(the y-axis values), and use the count function – this is the calculation
We have our graph!

Marks: 
We can use the Marks to add context and detail to our graphs.
Color, Size, Label, Detail, Tooltip, Additional Marks such as Shape mark, a Text mark (instead of label), a Path mark, or an Angle mark.


Filters: 
Types of Filters: 
categorical data (dimensions), 
quantitative data (measures), 
or date fields.

Sort: 
Types of Sorting: 
Sort by size of values (y-axis)
Manual Sort
Sort by field (x-axis)
Sort by the values of another column

Formatting: 
You can change the formatting for almost everything you see on a worksheet, 
including fonts, shading, alignment, borders, and graph lines. 



